Data and analysis for Taylor et al. (in prep): *Molecular signatures of alternative fitness strategies in a facultatively social hover wasp*. Analyses are collated into a single R markdown file, *LF_2020.Rmd*. Note that this file also contains a number of ancillary analyses which appeared in my PhD thesis but which are not used in the submitted manuscript. 

The supplied files should be sufficient to run the .Rmd file and generate all figures and results reported in the paper (plus a bunch more). Simply install rmarkdown from your preferred repository, clone this repo, open the included .Rmd file, edit the working path to match your machine's, and run. Analyses were originally run in R v4.2.0 + RStudio 22.02.04 and some required packages may not function as expected if using a newer version! 

The original version of this project involved two experiments. The first, 'Experiment 1', involved manipulaton of nests to compare the transcriptomes of social and solitary Liostenogaster flavolineata individuals performing foraging vs reproductive activities. Broadly speaking, the results of this experiment indicate that individuals exhibit substantially similar gene expression profiles whether solitary or social and whether performing foraging or reproductive activites, as long as they possessed developed ovaries; however, social subordinates that lack developed ovaries exhibit strongly divergent gene expression profiles. The second experiment, 'Experiment 2', is the source of the data and analyses reported within the manuscript. Readers wishing to re-run the analyses reported in the manuscript may therefore ignore all sections of the markdown document that are labeled as 'Experiment 1'. 
